Revise Swift entries (#929)
Codecademy/docs: content/swift/concepts/operators/terms/basic-operators/basic-operators.md

---
Title: 'Basic Operators'
Description: 'Basic operators in Swift are commonly used to evaluate, reassign, and combine values.'
Subjects:
  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags:

>   - 'Operators'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'Operators'
  - 'Values'
```

CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/build-ios-apps-with-swiftui'
---

**Basic operators** in Swift are commonly used to evaluate, reassign, and combine values.

## Assignment Operator

The assignment operator `=` in Swift is the same as in most other languages and serves the same purpose. It is used to initialize or reassign a variable to some value. In Swift, unlike some other high-level programming languages like C or Java, the assignment operator does not return any values.

```swift
var a = 5
// When we reference variable 'a', it returns the value int: 5.
let z = (a = 6)
// Compile warning that 'b' is of type '()' "
// Output: '()'
```

Here, the `z = (a=6)` assignment leaves `z` to equal `()` once the `a=6` is evaluated.

## Arithmetic Operators

Swift contains the following operators that match their similar expressions in common math:

> - `+` for addition
> - `-` for subtraction
> - `*` for multiplication
> - `/` for division
> - `%` for modulus or remainder division

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Addition: `a + b`
- Subtraction: `a - b`
- Multiplication: `a * b`
- Division: `a / b`
- Modulus/remainder division: `a % b`
```

These work as you would expect for all mathematical operations, however, the `+` operator can also be used to concatenate two strings together such as `"Operators" + " in Swift" = "Operators in Swift"`.

## Comparison Operators

These operators are used to return `Bool` values for use in conditional statements. These control logic flow in loops or if statements for example. The basic comparison operators are below:

> - `==` equal to
> - `!=` not equal to
> - `>` greater than
> - `>=` greater than or equal to
> - `<` less than
> - `<=` less than or equal to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Equal to: `this == that`
- Not equal to: `this != that`
- Greater than: `this > that`
- Greater than or equal to: `this >= that`
- Less than: `this < that`
- Less than or equal to: `this <= that`
```

The following code snippet shows a use case of comparison operators in a `while` loop that will :

```swift
var countUp = 0
var countDown = 10

while countUp < countDown {
  countUp = countUp + 1
  countDown = countDown - 1
}
```

## Logical Operators

> Logical Operators are used to evaluate or modify the value of Boolean values and are especially useful in control flow logic. In Swift, there are three operators:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Logical operators are used to evaluate or modify the value of Boolean values and are especially useful in control flow logic. In Swift, there are three operators:
```

> - `!` Logical NOT
> - `&&` Logical AND
> - `||` Logical OR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Logical NOT: `!this`
- Logical AND: `this && that`
- Logical OR: `this || that`
```

> Logical NOT(`!`) operator appears directly before a Boolean value with no spaces. This operator inverts the value of the Boolean so that `true` becomes `false` and vice versa.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Logical NOT (`!`) operator appears directly before a Boolean value with no spaces. This operator inverts the value of the Boolean so that `true` becomes `false` and vice versa.
```

```swift
var earthIsFlat = false
if !earthIsFlat {
  print("All our physics doesn't work!")
}
```

> Logical `AND` (`&&`) and logical `OR` (`||`) operators evaluate two `Boolean`s or `Boolean` expressions. In an `AND` evaluation, both expressions must result in `true`, resulting in the overall `AND` expression becoming `true`. In an `OR` evaluation only one expression must be `true` for the result of OR to be `true`. In both cases, if the left side of the expression evaluates to a value that the compiler can determine a value for the operator, the right side will not be evaluated at all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The logical AND (`&&`) and OR (`||`) operators evaluate two `Boolean` values or expressions. In an AND evaluation, both expressions must result in `true`, resulting in the overall AND expression becoming `true`. In an OR evaluation only one expression must be `true` for the result of OR to be `true`. In both cases, if the left side of the expression evaluates to a value that the compiler can determine a value for the operator, the right side will not be evaluated at all.
```

I would avoid backticking what isn't a part of Swift's syntax (AND, OR, etc.).

```swift
for food in picnic[...2] {
  print(food)
}
// Ceasar Salad
// Turkey Sandwich
// Cookie

for food in picnic[2...] {
  print(food)
}
// Cookie
// Juice Box

for food in picnic[..<3] {
  print(food)
}
// Ceasar Salad
// Turkey Sandwich
// Cookie

let infiniteRange = 0... // 0 to infinity
for i in infiniteRange {
  print(i)
  // Creates an infinite loop, always take note of what
  // "stops" your open-ended ranges
}
```

## Nil-Coalescing Operator

The nil-coalescing operator (`a ?? z`) unwraps an optional with the value of `a` unless `a` is `nil`, then it will return the value of `z`. `a` always has to be an optional type and `z` has to match the type that's stored in `a`.

```swift
let defaultPrice = 1.99
var getItemPrice: Double?

let priceToChargeCustomer = getItemPrice ?? defaultPrice
```

Since `getItemPrice` isn't assigned a value it defaults to `'nil'`. The price to charge the customer is either a price we get from an item or the default price. In this case, priceToChargeCustomer = 1.99

## Ternary Conditional Operator

> The ternary conditional operator is shorthand for a simple `if`-`else` statement. It follows the syntax `statementToTest ? doThisAndReturnIfTrue : doThisAndReturnIfFalse` which in terms of the `if`-`else` statement can be read as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ternary conditional operator is shorthand for an `if`-`else` statement.

### Syntax

```

> 

Reviewer: Here, I would put a \```pseudo statement with the following:

```pseudo
statementToTest ? doThisAndReturnIfTrue : doThisAndReturnIfFalse
```

> - `if` the statement is true, evaluate and return the value of the left side of the ternary
> - `if` it's false, evaluate and return the value of the right side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the statement is `true`, the code on the left side of the ternary evaluates and returns a value.
- If it is `false`, the right side of the ternary evaluates and returns a value.
```

```swift
var a = 5
// When we reference variable 'a', it returns the value int: 5.
let z = (a = 6)
// Compile warning that 'b' is of type '()' "
// Output: '()'
```

Here, the `z = (a=6)` assignment leaves `z` to equal `()` once the `a=6` is evaluated.

## Arithmetic Operators

Swift contains the following operators that match their similar expressions in common math:

- Addition: `a + b`
- Subtraction: `a - b`
- Multiplication: `a * b`
- Division: `a / b`
- Modulus/remainder division: `a % b`

These work as expected for all mathematical operations, however, the `+` operator can also be used to concatenate two strings together such as `"Operators" + " in Swift" = "Operators in Swift"`.

## Comparison Operators

These operators are used to return `Bool` values for use in conditional statements. These control logic flow in loops or if statements for example. The basic comparison operators are below:

- Equal to: `this == that`
- Not equal to: `this != that`
- Greater than: `this > that`
- Greater than or equal to: `this >= that`
- Less than: `this < that`
- Less than or equal to: `this <= that`

> The following code snippet shows a use case of comparison operators in a `while` loop that will :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following code snippet shows a use case of comparison operators in a `while` loop:
```
